Hello, I'm Professor Brian Bushee
welcome back.
In this video we're gonna do an overview
of the company Woof Junction
that we're going to analyze this week.
I know it's tempting to just jump in and
start looking at ratios but we wouldn't
actually learn anything if we did that.
We first need to know
the company's strategy and
business model to be able
to interpret the ratios.
What the ratios can tell us is what part
of the company's strategy is working,
or not working.
So let's take a few minutes to
learn about Woof Junction and
then we can get into the ratio
analysis in another video.
Let's get started!
The company that we’re going to be
analyzing in the next few videos is called
Woof Junction.
It’s a specialty retailer of fashionable
clothes and accessories for dogs.
They’re located in a lot
of shopping malls and
on hip shopping streets in the US,Canada,
and United Kingdom.
They have over 1200 stores at this point.
They own most of their own stores,
they don't tend to use franchisees.
>> It appears that the dog
is happy about this case.
But does this company really exist?
>> No, sadly,
Woof Junction is not a real company.
So don't run out to the shopping
mall after this video
to check out their products.
What I'm gonna do in these videos is
anytime I wanna talk about a real company,
I'm gonna disguise it.
I'm gonna change the name, change some of
the facts, so you can't tell who it is.
I'm gonna do that for three reasons.
First, I don't have to worry about a real
company getting into a scandal right after
I shoot the video, and
then the video looking inappropriate.
Second, if it was a real company you could
find out what actually happened after
the point of the analysis which would sort
of spoil some of the surprise aspects
of going through the analysis.
And third, if it was a real company
it'd have to worry about what I said.
Cuz the last thing I want to do is get
a call from a real companies lawyers,
because I've said bad things about it on
a video that's going around the world.
So for all those reasons, I'm going to
disguise real companies when I use them in
videos, but I think this is sort of
a cool idea so if you're looking for
a business idea,
Woof Junction may be the way to go.
Their strategy is to try to develop a
strong reputation as a fashion trendsetter
with good quality clothes
at reasonable prices.
They have a team of designers that work
two years in advance to try to create
the next stylish but basic "look" for
them to rollout into their stores.
They carry a very deep inventory
of a limited number of items.
They try to bring in a new collection
of styles every two months, any
older styles that are still around, they
try to sell quickly by slashing prices.
Their clothing is manufactured
under the Woof Junction label, so
you won't find any other brand
name clothes in their stores.
They use 450 supplies, 38% in the U.S,
the rest they're in China, and
other countries, and they tried to
impose strict quality standards and
inspections to make sure
the quality is uniform and good.
Most of their inventory is maintained
at regional distribution centers or
warehouses, not in the store.
But then they have point of sale
scanners that will automatically
reorder inventory to restock their
retail stores as quickly as possible.
They try to establish a very strong brand
name through extensive advertising and
promotional campaigns.
Through celebrity endorsements and this is
both celebrity people and celebrity dogs.
Their stores always have the same look but
they frequently rearrange the displays,
so it has a fresh look every
time that you come in.
Their management team
has been very stable.
Most of the management team is still
around from the founding of the company.
They had very high growth in sales and
earnings despite struggles
in the industry.
Woof Junction has been labeled
as the nation's hottest retailer
by a major business magazine.
Most of their growth has come
from new store openings.
And right now, their stock price is $55
a share with price-earnings ratio of 32.
>> What is this thing called
a price-earnings ratio?
And is 32 good or bad?
>> The price-earnings ratio, or
P/E ratio is the ratio of the company
stock price to its earnings per share.
People will use this as a quick and dirty
way to try to figure out what the value of
a company's stock price should be.
So what they'll do is look at the average
P/E ratio within the company's industry,
or they'll look at the company's
historical P/E ratio.
So once you have a benchmark P/E ratio,
if you multiply that times earnings,
it gives you what
the stock price should be.
Then you can it to actual stock price and
get a sense for
whether the company is over or
under valued.
So P/E ratio of 32 would only
make sense if you compared it to
other firms in the industry or
to Woof Junction's historical ratio.
I'm not gonna talk about it anymore than
this because I think it's a really bad way
to assess the value of the company.
If you are interested in valuation,
I will do an optional video later
on where I will show you a much
better way that you can try to come up
with the value of a company stock price.
Because they have been ,so successful
they're facing heavy threats from
their competition.
Major department store retailers and
other specialty clothing store chains have
now plans to introduce similar lines of
dog clothing to eat into the market share.
Their future goals and plans are to
try to maintain at least a 30% ROE and
11% ROS going into the future.
>> ROE?
ROS?
Is this accounting analytics or
alphabet soup?
>> Yeah, I'm sorry we're gonna throw
around a lot of abbreviations in
this course.
But don't worry we should
define them all at some point.
In the next video we'll talk about in
more detail what ROE and ROS stand for.
They also want to try to
maintain 20% sales growth.
They're gonna to try to do this
through new store openings and
enlargement of some of
their existing stores.
They're planning capital expenditures
of about $200 million per year and
a lot of this will be expanding
into European and Asian markets.
They want to keep their focus on their
core competencies in dog fashion, but
they are studying possible
expansion into the cat and
ferret markets to try to stave
off some of their competition.
Finally, Woof Junction is considering
launching its own credit card.
Not only might this spur further growth
in sales, but they could also earn
financing income by earning interest
revenue on the credit card receivables.
To do our thorough analysis of
Woof Junction, we're gonna rely a lot
on an excel spreadsheet, which should
be available on the course platform.
In the first tab of that spreadsheet,
I've typed in Woof Junctions financial
statements for the last five years.
So you can see their balance sheet,
their income statement, and
their statement of cash flows.
Now what you should do before you
watch the next video on ratios is
take some time on your own,
look through these financial statements.
Make sure you understand what
the line items mean, and
then see if you can spot any interesting
trends in the financial statements that
we need to better understand as
we work through the analysis.
That wraps our look at
the overview of Woof Junction.
I can't recommend strongly
enough how important it is for
you to find the spreadsheet that has
all the Woof Junction information.
Start to get familiar
with that spreadsheet,
because we're gonna spend a lot of
time on it in the next few videos.
I'll see you next time.
>> See you next video!